I think we've nailed this.
Hey, Paul. Check this out.
Listen, for Biscuit Week,
Noel and I have created this digestive
that you can keep dunking in your cuppa
and it don't break off. Look at that.
Incredible.
We're taking it to Dragon's Den.
We've been doing this for 45 minutes
and it's still holding strong.
That's amazing. But what's in it?
We've got the usual.
Sugar, flour, and a secret ingredient.
Ah.
-A very thin layer of concrete.
-[Paul groans]
-[Alison] Ah.
-Welcome to The Great British Baking Show.
-Think we'll get a handshake?
-I'm not so sure. Let's get out of there.
[opening theme music playing]
I'm well buzzing.
It's proper nice to get back?
I saw those three peaks and I thought,
"I'm happy, I'm at home."
It's nice.
[Keith] Here we go again.
[Dana] Last week was very stressful,
but it's a new week,
it's a new day, it's a new dawn.
Biscuits is completely different to cakes.
[Keith] I make shortbread a lot.
It's one of those recipes
where you get quite a lot of plaudits
compared to the amount
of effort that you put in.
Good to see you, bakers.
Welcome to Biscuit Week.
For your signature challenge,
the judges would like you to make
a batch of 12 identical
marshmallow biscuits.
Inspired by childhood favourites
like the teacake or the Wagon Wheel,
the judges are looking
for delicious biscuits,
either topped or sandwiched
with perfectly set marshmallow.
Now, you probably noticed
that these biscuits
are a lot smaller
than they used to be when we were kids.
Well, this is your chance
to right that wrong.
There's nothing stopping you
from making your biscuit
absolutely massive like Noel's head.
[laughs] We're looking for
dustbin lids, okay?
Now, the shape, the flavours,
and the design is entirely up to you.
You've got two and a half hours.
-On your marks…
-Get set…
-[in Jamaican accent] Bake!
-[Noel laughing]
Marshmallow biscuits isn't something
I've had for a long time.
There's only one marshmallow biscuit
as far as I'm concerned,
and it's a Tunnock's Teacake.
Oh, my days.
[Paul] Marshmallow biscuits.
Now this goes back to our childhood.
For me, it was the Wagon Wheel,
best thing ever.
Marshmallow is mild in flavour and sweet.
So you need something that lifts it.
Like citrusy jam or something
with a bit of acidity will help.
[Paul] It's about decoration as well,
although it should be relatively simple
to create the biscuits
and the marshmallow,
it's about decoration.
It's gotta look good.
It's gotta look shop made.
-Good morning, Dana.
-Hello.
[Prue] Hello, Dana.
Dana, tell us about
your signature marshmallow biscuit.
-Doing a speculoos marshmallow biscuit…
-Oh, lovely.
…that's got lot of ginger, cloves,
-mixed spice, everything.
-Lovely.
[Alison] Dana's love of spices
comes from the Indian dishes
her mum, Chhaya, taught her growing up.
[Dana] That's a lovely golden colour.
Almost burnt colour.
[Dana] It's not burnt, Mum.
[Alison] Sitting on top
of her spiced biscuit,
Dana's vanilla marshmallow
and speculoos biscuit buttercream
will be set in an intricate mould.
[Prue] Beautiful.
[Dana] It's been a challenge
demoulding it.
As long as I've got enough time to
get it in the fridge for a good half hour.
It needs to be rock solid to get it out.
That's what I'm hoping for.
Looking forward to this one.
Me too. Can't wait to have one myself.
That's perfect. Right.
[Noel] Those who've chosen
to make teacakes
will be using moulds
to create the classic chocolate dome
which will hold the marshmallow.
Let me just wiggle them around.
[Abbi] The outside will be smooth
because it's moulded
into the dome shape, thankfully.
I'm probably a little bit
envious of the people who have got moulds,
but, hey-ho, I made the decision
to go for Wagon Wheels.
When I've made them at home,
people liked it.
[Alison] Keith likes to doorstep
his neighbours
looking for feedback on his bakes,
which has earned
him the nickname Needy Ned.
That's delicious.
Phew. I'm relieved.
[Noel] Today, he'll be recreating
the all-American peanut butter
and jelly sandwich in Wagon Wheel form.
Now a little birdy told me
you was into stand-up.
I… I did a bit of stand-up
for a few years about 20 years ago.
And was you good?
I wasn't good enough to go… go full-time.
Give me your best gag.
The best gag that you…
-Get me rolling.
-I can't.
-Everyone wants to hear Alison's laugh.
-You might find out I'm funnier than Noel.
-And then--
-No, go on. Go on.
-It doesn't work.
-What you got?
[mimics chicken clucking]
-Come on. You've got something.
-[timer beeping]
What's, erm, the joke that used
to get everyone straight away?
Shall I stop that, babe?
[beeping stops]
-Erm…
-What's that timer for?
That's time for the interview to end.
[laughing]
[laughs]
-[Paul] Morning.
-Good morning.
-Hello, Dan. Reigning Star Baker.
-Hello.
Yes, indeed.
Tell us about your signature.
Yes. So, it's my son's birthday tomorrow.
So these flavours are based on
the three things he lives on every day.
Which is chocolate,
bananas and peanut butter.
-What a healthy diet for a child.
-Perfect diet.
Can I help?
-[Dan] You can do, mate.
-Yay!
[Alison] 4-year-old Sam and older brother
Rory love to help dad in the kitchen.
Especially when there are
bowls to be cleaned.
You've got it all down the front.
[Alison] Covered in dark chocolate,
his peanut biscuits
will sandwich layers
of peanut butter ganache
and banana marshmallow.
-Have you practised this a lot?
-I've done it three times.
How do you find the time?
After the kids go to bed.
-Really?
-Yeah.
When you want to bake,
the kids'll never go to bed, right?
No, they don't.
And they come in and especially
the younger one, "Can I help?"
"Yeah, of course."
And, like, knock a bowl over,
spill flour all over the place
and clear off.
[Noel laughs]
-Chimpanzees tea party.
-Ah, totally. Yeah.
[Cristy] I'm making rose teacakes,
and these are for my nan.
My nanny June. She's not with us any more,
but she loved roses.
So, they're gonna have, like,
little roses painted into the shells.
[Noel] Nanny June might be
the inspiration for Cristy's teacakes,
but it's her youngest daughter, Sienna,
who's been helping mum perfect the recipe.
[Cristy] Good girl. Keep going.
[Noel] Cristy will layer
rosewater flavoured marshmallow
and a mixed berry jam
atop a digestive biscuit,
all encased in a delicate
floral white chocolate shell.
What do your kids think of these biscuits?
Do they like these ones?
Yeah. They're like,
"Why can't we touch 'em?"
-I'm like, "No, you can't touch 'em now."
-[laughs]
But yeah. No, they do. They like 'em.
Have you explained to them about
how it's going, how exciting it is?
The little ones don't know.
But my eldest, yeah.
She's just, like, living her life.
-She's living her best life.
-Yeah.
When you're a mum,
you've got so much mummy guilt
and the kids ain't even bothered.
-I know.
-They're not bothered.
-"Mum's missing? Who cares."
-Yeah.
[Matty] Gonna roll 'em out.
Aim to get even thickness.
It's a biscuit I used to eat
when I played football.
It's a half-time biscuit almost.
A well-known biscuit.
I've taken the theme of that biscuit
and put it into a Wagon Wheel.
[Alison] Sports-mad Matty
and his partner Lara
first locked eyes at their local gym.
Eight years later,
they're busy planning their wedding.
[Lara] Which one
are you thinking looks nice?
I don't know.
They all look the same. [chuckles]
[Alison] He's chosen chocolate
and orange flavours
for his sandwich-style biscuit.
He'll be assembling
in a mould for a sharp, elegant finish.
-I like your tattoo.
-Thanks.
[Noel] If you win,
you've gotta get another tattoo.
-Okay.
-If you win, we'll both get one.
-GBBO.
-[both laugh]
I'll get one of you on my chest.
-Not on your back?
-Like that.
[both laugh]
I've got one of Rahul on my bum.
[both chuckle]
[crew laughing]
[Dana] We're going in the oven.
[Noel] The bakers will need to keep
a close eye on their biscuits.
Ten minutes. Erm…
We'll check 'em at eight.
[Noel] As they can go
from underbaked and soft
to overbaked and tough
in a matter of minutes.
Twelve minutes in the oven.
Calm exterior, but I'm doing
absolute somersaults inside, yeah.
[Noel] They need to make a start
on any extra fillings,
curds or jams
that will accompany the marshmallow.
I'm just heating up my cream
for my ganache.
Raspberries. I'm making raspberry jam.
Look at the colour, see?
It's beautiful.
[Nicky] So, that's a rhubarb
and ginger jam.
This'll be the flavour kick
to the marshmallow.
Smells amazing.
[Alison] Nicky and husband, Rob,
are both retired,
but like to keep active,
whether it's out rambling
with dogs Haggis and Bracken
or doing exercise classes together.
-Phew.
-[Nicky and Rob laugh]
He got bright red cheeks now.
[Noel] Nicky's ginger and rhubarb jam
will be the main attraction
in teacakes of pistachio shortbread
and vanilla marshmallow.
You've got rhubarb and ginger
as the hero flavours…
-Exactly.
-…with a hint of pistachio in the biscuit.
-Very good.
-Let's hope it works.
[Josh] I'm doing
black forest jam teacakes.
Blackberries and blackcurrants
are my favourite fruits to make jam with.
They work lovely together.
I love to bake
with fruit and stuff off my garden
and I always want
them to be the star of the show.
[Alison] Green-fingered Josh
and younger brother Jake
love growing their own fruit
and vegetables.
They have even won prizes
for their enormous marrows.
Sitting in between his vanilla marshmallow
and dried cherry biscuit base
will be black forest jam
made from the spoils
of his beloved garden.
-Do you feel really relaxed there?
-Yeah.
I do rugby from September
through till about now,
and then we go, switch, and it's on to…
-Calm world.
-…all the gardening stuff.
You're living the way
everyone wants to live.
-Growing and then baking.
-Yeah.
Rugby not so sure about.
Just getting pounded in the cold. [laughs]
-Good luck.
-Thank you.
[chuckles] Thought I was your biggest fan.
[laughing] That's good, that is.
Bakers…
[Noel] You are halfway through.
Taking these out now.
[Abbi] Oh, yes! They look nice.
Very good.
Yeah. They look like they did at home.
Which is a good thing.
I think it's all right.
It just a little brown,
so I'm happy with that.
-[Alison] Saku! How you doing?
-Hello. Good, thank you very much.
Now do you bake biscuits often?
Not very often.
-Hmm.
-At least once a week.
-That's often. If you're baking biscuits--
-Every day is often I think.
-Every week is really often.
-Okay. Yes.
-So, you're good at biscuit making then?
-I hope so.
[Noel] Every Sri Lankan new year,
instead of baking biscuits,
Saku and her family celebrate
by boiling over milk,
a tradition that symbolises prosperity
It run everywhere.
[speaking Sinhalese] Most of the milk
overflowed to the South, Mum, no worries.
[Noel in English] Today, she'll be
serving up an elegant sandwiched pistachio
and raspberry jam marshmallow biscuit,
inspired by a flavour
she fell in love with in Sicily.
So, whenever we go there,
I try pistachio granita.
Ah! It's heavenly.
I love pistachio.
[Alison] While Saku is bringing a taste
of Sicily into the tent,
Tasha is taking us down under.
I'm making a malted chocolate biscuit.
Erm, it's like a chocolate drink
that I used to have in Australia.
Was it called Milo?
-Yes.
-[Noel] Yeah, yeah.
I used to have that in South Africa.
Can you get it here?
-Found it.
-I need to know where.
-I found--
-Don't tell her.
[laughs]
I'll tell you after.
[Alison] Tasha moved to Australia
with her mum and brother aged nine,
where she got a taste for the outdoors
and for the malted chocolate milk drink
she would enjoy
at the end of every school day.
She'll be flavouring every element of her
elegantly decorated marshmallow biscuits
with this popular powdered drink.
The flavours are very much,
like, childhood flavours,
so I'll be very sad if they don't like it.
[Noel] Tasha isn't the only baker…
Oopsie boopsie.
…who spent some of her childhood
in sunnier climes.
I used to live in Tunisia
and they don't have teacakes there,
so they're not
a big childhood thing for me.
I thought I'll use the other thing from
childhood that significantly impacted it,
which was living in Tunisia.
[Alison] Abbi spent seven years in Tunisia
before returning to rural Cumbria
where she took up
a gravity-defying fitness class.
[Abbi] Whee.
[Alison] Her Tunisian-inspired teacakes
will see a zesty orange curd
in between her pistachio and cardamom
biscuit and saffron marshmallow.
Why do you bake?
-Why?
-Yeah.
I like it 'cause it's my creative outlet.
-Do you do other creative things?
-I do aerial hoop.
What's that?
It's like a hoop
that hangs down from the ceiling
and you go upside down in it.
What? Where do they have…
Where does this happen?
It's in a barn on a farm.
-[chuckles]
-So you drive to a barn…
-I drive to a barn and then--
-Get in an aerial hoop.
-Then I get in a hoop.
-Make shapes.
Yeah. And then I go home.
[oven beeps]
Rowan, good morning.
-Good morning. How are you?
-Morning.
Right, Rowan, tell us all about
your marshmallow biscuits.
I'm doing lemon and rosemary shortbread,
erm, with a Parma Violet marshmallow.
-Parma Violet?
-[Rowan] Yeah.
My nan used to like Parma Violets.
They are absolutely disgusting.
Oh, wonderful.
-[Paul laughs]
-A vote of confidence.
[Noel] Yorkshire lad Rowan
loves to go for long walks in the dales
with dad, John and mum, Moira.
[Rowan] That noise is making me wanna wee.
[Moira laughs]
[Noel] His flavour-packed teacakes
will feature a lemon
and rosemary shortbread
and raspberry gel to complement
his Parma Violet marshmallow.
I don't know if you like Parma Violet.
-I love it, is it those purple sweets?
-Yes.
-Someone likes it.
-I love it.
-You love Parma Violet.
-Yeah.
Paul and Prue do not.
They said it's a bit vile actually.
So I'm whipping up--
What you gonna do?
When life gives you lemons, Alison.
-Make Parma Violets. [laughs]
-Make Parma Violet, yeah.
Just make sure there's the right amount
of air in these shoulder pads.
[mimics air pumping]
Bakers, you have one hour left.
Marshmallow time.
[Noel chuckles]
Before the competition,
not made a great deal of it,
but it's a bit like
a Swiss meringue basically.
And the addition
of loads of gelatine to help it set.
[Alison] Key to a marshmallow's pillowy
but firm form
lies in the gelatine and sugar syrup.
I'm making the sugar syrup
with the caster sugar and golden syrup.
I'll add that to the egg whites
and get it whipped for ten minutes
and then it should get you
creamy marshmallow fluff
just like chef's kiss. [chuckles]
[Noel] But bringing the mix
to the right temperature is crucial.
So this has to get
to 114 to 116 degrees C.
Oh, hurry up.
[Noel] Too hot, and their marshmallow
will be tough and chewy,
too cold, and it won't set.
[Dana gasps] Here we go.
So now that gets poured
into the egg whites.
And then gradually
it will turn into a marshmallow fluff.
[Alison] And for those adding flavours,
there's an additional balance
to be struck.
[Matty] Going with some extract
into the marshmallow.
Only a cap. Extract can be
quite offensive if you use too much of it.
[Rowan] It was gonna be a couple of drops.
But now I've spoke to the judges,
it's gonna be one drop, if that.
Might just do lemon. Sod it.
[Noel] But while most
have their marshmallows made,
Keith is struggling with his sugar syrup.
It's taking a little bit longer
than I expected
for the, erm, sugar
to start to come up to temperature.
I'm a little bit concerned about the time,
but we shall see.
Bakers, you've got 30 minutes left.
Time goes quick, that's gone really quick.
[Keith] Oh, and that's as good
as it will do for me.
[Alison] As Keith races
to make his marshmallow…
[Nicky] Right, are we ready?
[Alison] …the rest of the bakers
have begun to build.
Smells very Parma Violet-y.
I'm feeling stressed.
[Alison] But with so much marshmallow,
it's essential the bakers' other elements
are able to punch through the sweetness.
Just putting the jam
on top of the, erm, biscuits.
Not too much, just a wee layer
that'll just sort of sit.
[Noel] While many of the bakers
are relying on moulds
to achieve a flawless finish…
So now it'll set in the fridge
until I demould it.
That's if I can get it demoulded.
…others are preparing
for a freehand finish.
I'm gonna have to get dipping.
Time is against me now.
I just have to go really quickly.
Please work, please work.
Bakers, you have ten minutes left.
I really wanted to take my time
on this bit. Whoopsie-daisy.
[Keith] So now
I can start doing the marshmallow.
[Alison] As Keith's biscuits
finally start coming together,
for the teacake contingent,
it's time to demould.
Moment of truth. Here we go.
Once they come out,
they're done.
But it's just getting them out,
that's the tricky bit.
[Rowan] They're coming out
and not snapping.
I was expecting a breakage
with my luck today.
[Dana] That one's broken.
That was the challenge though
with this mould.
[Keith] I need to get the chocolate
round the edges,
but you do have to be very delicate,
and delicacy's not really in my skill set.
[Cristy] They're just so messy underneath.
Gonna trim round carefully.
[Dana] Gentle, gentle, gentle.
I need to decorate the top the best I can.
Yeah, just jazz it up a bit.
[Keith] I'll put some peanuts on.
I can hide a lot of stuff with glitter.
[laughs] That's what I'm hoping for.
[Dan] They just look like dodgy
alloy wheels from, like, the 1990s.
[Abbi] Oh, they look messy.
Ah, sorry, kangaroo,
you're gonna get a messy bum.
Perfect.
Okay, bakers, your time is up.
Please step away from your biscuits.
We got 12, that's the main thing.
God. That was stressful.
-[Daryl] They look beautiful.
-[Tasha] Thanks.
[sighs]
[Noel] Eleven batches
of marshmallow biscuits
now face the judgement of Prue and Paul.
[Prue] Did you drop three of them?
-Erm, I don't know what you're on about?
-[laughter]
-There's nothing there to see.
-They look amazing, bar these broken ones.
Let's have a look
and see what it's like inside.
-[Prue] Thank you.
-[Paul] Lovely interior.
The balance between
the marshmallow and the biscuit is good.
-Oh, it's delicious.
-[Dana] Thank you.
Very spicy.
[Paul] The topping, I like,
but it's overwhelmed by the biscuit.
It's so potent that a delicate thing
like a marshmallow
is never gonna stand a chance.
You know, I don't really agree
because, frankly,
-marshmallow deserves to be overridden.
-[Dana] Mmm-hmm.
-I think it works beautifully.
-Thank you.
-[Alison] Thank you.
[Paul] Let's have a look.
[Prue] Oh, my goodness,
that's neat as a pin.
Erm, the Parma Violets,
I'm not getting too much of that,
-which for me is a good thing.
-Okay.
[Paul] You do get
that lemon coming through.
So you end up with a…
a pretty decent marshmallow biscuit.
Do you know, I think it's amazing.
I think you've got
so many flavours in there,
you get them one after another.
It's perfect.
-Oh, thank you.
-Well done.
I was so nervous.
-[Alison] Well done.
-Thanks.
-[Prue] Very pretty.
-[Paul] Yeah.
[Saku] I baked, er, pistachio
and vanilla marshmallow biscuit.
I think your flavours are good.
The jam comes through, the biscuit,
you do get that, er, pistachio flavour.
My only comment would be
the biscuit needed
-a little bit longer in the oven.
-Oh.
[Paul] You could've spun
the chocolate neater than that,
but I do like them.
I think they do look pretty nice. Ooh.
-[Alison] Wow.
-[Paul] Hello.
Your chocolate's a bit thick
at the bottom.
That should've been paper-thin.
-Your orange jam is delicious.
-[Paul] Yeah.
[Prue] If instead of putting
a blob of jam in the middle,
-you'd put a layer of jam…
-Yeah.
…then every mouthful
would've been perfect.
Well, they all look neat as a pin
and they're certainly identical.
[Paul] Let's cut one open.
-[Prue] Good crack on the chocolate.
-Looks lovely inside, Josh.
[Prue] Nice and thin.
Chocolate's beautifully done.
I like the balance
between the sweet and the tartness.
-Which comes from the jam.
-Yeah.
You've got the nice fruits coming through
in there. Pretty, pretty spot on.
[Prue] Well, your roses worked.
-Yeah.
-[Prue] Perfectly.
The rose flavour's definitely there,
but I don't think it's too much.
I think you're right.
The rose level is about right.
The berry in there needed to be
a little bit stronger and more of it,
but it's very neat
and you've done a decent job.
[Prue] They are a bit messy,
but I do think
they're exciting and attractive.
-[Paul] They look like crowns.
-[Abbi chuckles]
There's a lot of orange in there.
Yes, probably a little bit too much.
The biscuit is lovely and crispy,
but the orange is really punching,
and be careful to allow yourself time
to finish off your bakes.
-A little bit more finesse.
-Yeah.
[Prue] At first glance, they look good.
When you look a bit closer,
they're a bit messy.
[Paul] Interesting inside,
a lot going on in there
when it comes to the layers.
[Dan] These are a peanut biscuit
with white chocolate,
and peanut butter ganache,
and a banana marshmallow.
I don't know what I think about that,
because technically it's perfect.
[Paul] Hmm.
Maybe I don't share
your four-year-old's tastes.
Yeah, possibly so.
[Paul] Texture-wise, it's spot on.
-Not a thick layer of chocolate.
-[Alison] Yeah.
[Paul] It's paper-thin, as it should be.
If you hadn't put the cartwheel on,
they'd look better.
Yeah, I know.
-Bit messy, aren't they?
-[laughs]
I knew they weren't gonna be
the most attractive offering in the tent.
I… I wasn't planning on them
being quite so messy.
[Alison] They're gonna taste amazing.
-[Prue] You're looking worried.
-[Prue and Keith laugh]
Keith the truth is,
it really is delicious.
The, erm, marshmallow's holding its shape.
The raspberry jam is terrific.
This is the nicest, crispest biscuit.
Is it ugly but nice?
It's Beauty and the Beast.
-Beauty's on the inside. But look at it.
-[Alison laughs]
-[chuckles] I'll take that.
-[Paul] Thank you.
[Nicky] So these are biscuit
with ground pistachios,
rhubarb and ginger jam,
and then chocolate on the top.
-[Paul] Where's the ginger?
-[Nicky] The jam.
-It was there.
-Where is it?
I think it ran a wee bit.
-Ran out the tent. There's nothing here.
-[laughter]
[Prue] He's trying to find some.
Oh, stop it. [laughs]
-[Alison] He's trying to see… Oh, no.
-[Paul] No.
[Alison and Nicky laughing]
[Prue] There's gotta be some somewhere.
-There is. I just put a wee thin layer on.
-[Paul] Why?
Because I didn't want it to overpower it.
So you got a wee bit there.
Oh, dearie me, never mind.
It is dearie me,
because otherwise it's nicely constructed.
The biscuit is beautiful,
the chocolate's nice and thin.
You've done a good job,
but we needed the jam.
[sighs]
Well, they look very sophisticated
and beautifully piped, and the spinning
is just so thin and lovely.
My instinct is
that the biscuits are too thick.
Because I think that's quite a mouthful.
[Paul] I think they're…
The biscuit,
you think it's thick, but it's not,
'cause it crumbles, it's delicate.
And the chocolate comes through,
not dark chocolate.
But it has a beautiful
malted aftertaste in the mouth.
They're delicate, pretty.
-And I have to shake your hand.
-[gasps]
-Oh, good for you.
-[Alison squeals]
[Tasha laughs]
Thank you.
I tell you what, that pleases me
-as much as it pleases you.
-Beautiful.
Oh, that's a handshake.
I'll have two of those. Thanks. [laughs]
[imperceptible]
[laughing] I got a Hollywood handshake.
I was not expecting that at all.
Yes! I'm so proud.
[Keith] I don't think I could have
got any better than that.
Because the judges aren't blind,
they could see that
it looked like a flipping mess.
[Nicky] You can't be worried
about these things, 'cause it's done.
And I can't do anything about it.
And so, yeah,
you just got to enjoy the moment.
Keep smiling, 'cause that's what
life's all about, isn't it?
[bee buzzing]
[Alison] While the bakers could practise
their marshmallow biscuits,
the next challenge is a mystery.
Hello. Welcome back to the tent.
It's time for your technical challenge,
which today has been set for you
by the lovely Prue.
Any words of wisdom?
[Prue] I have only got one piece
of advice for you guys,
and that is use your time wisely.
Now, as always, this challenge
is gonna be judged blind.
-So, guys, off you go.
-[Noel] Off you pop.
And when we say go, we mean go.
Don't skulk back
-pretending to look for your charger.
-[laughs]
Okay. Prue would like you to make a batch
of 12 perfectly baked custard creams.
[Noel] Your custard creams should be made
with a short, buttery biscuit
and imprinted with that
classic custard cream design.
And they should be filled
with a custard buttercream.
Sounds delicious.
-You've got one and a half hours for this.
-That does not sound long enough.
-On your marks…
-[Alison] Get set…
Bake!
[Abbi] Oh, my gosh.
[Cristy] I've never made
custard creams. I've eaten them,
but never made one.
It's good because you know
what they look and taste like.
It's bad because you know
[wearily] Custard creams.
I have no idea. [laughs]
I'm a fan.
I'm looking forward to this.
Huge custard man, yeah.
I'm from the North.
I have it for breakfast. [chuckles]
Custard creams, Prue.
This is a great technical challenge.
But do you think it's too simple?
It's not that simple.
It's actually easy to go wrong.
I think the most common problem will be
people not chilling
their biscuit dough enough.
It needs to go
into the oven really, really cold.
If it's a slightest bit warm,
the butter will start to melt
and you will lose the definition
and the shape.
The next most common problem
will be not getting
the crème au beurre properly chilled.
It's all about chilling and timing.
Choose your biscuit, Prue. Mmm.
It holds together beautifully.
-Beautiful custard flavour.
-[Prue] Mmm.
There's a lovely snap to it as well
in the mouth.
Tell you what, these taste a whole heap
better than the ones in the packet.
First instruction,
"Make biscuit dough, chill in freezer."
Just says, "Make the biscuit dough."
Which is really helpful. Thanks, Prue.
[whispering] I looked up
a custard cream recipe last night. Shh.
You cream together your butter and sugar
and then add in your egg,
add in your flour, and put
the custard powder in with the flour.
-[Alison] Hey, Dana.
-Alison.
You look like you're ahead.
-Don't say that.
-You're doing good.
That's how it was last week
and I came last.
-Don't put no pressure on yourself.
-Yeah.
-Have you done this before?
-No. It's just biscuit, isn't it?
-Just biscuit?
-[laughs] It's just biscuit.
It's not just biscuit,
it's a custard cream.
[Keith] Get it straight in the freezer.
I get the impression
from how Prue was describing it
that you haven't got
a great deal of time to mess around.
[Rowan] Whole thing about this
is freezing,
'cause you've gotta stamp,
and you wanna be able to
stamp it and see it.
If you don't, what's the point?
It's not a custard cream.
-It's kind of amazing.
-I know.
-Did you know that existed until today?
-No.
-Me neither.
-It's almost like a game,
where we've got to be
the quickest to the button.
-To the buzzer?
-Yeah.
[Noel laughs]
-Who's the best at baking? Paul or Prue?
-[laughing]
Paul. [chuckles]
Who's gonna win the Bake Off this year?
-Keith.
-[both laugh]
So step number two is,
"For the custard buttercream,
make a sugar syrup in a small pan
and boil to 121 Celsius."
It's getting very technical.
Dissolve.
It's made like a French meringue
buttercream and I have made one already.
I know what I'm doing.
So this is gonna heat up, and then
I'm going to pour it into my egg yolks,
and whisk it until they're big and fluffy.
Well, we've just zoomed past 121.
[chuckling] So I'll just
leave it there for a sec. It's fine.
[Dan] I've just got this to 121 degrees.
And I shall be plonking it in
with the egg yolks.
I know you've got to
do this really slowly.
If you chuck it all in, it will split.
The eggs haven't whisked up,
the buttercream has all gone to pot,
and I need to start again.
[Dana] So it's getting nice and thick.
"Sieve custard powder, then whisk again."
Get as much of that as possible
and give it another whisk.
[Keith] The buttercream's looking better.
I'm still a lot behind though.
[Rowan] "When ready,
whisk the butter into the buttercream."
Once you incorporate the butter into it,
it will increase in volume, thicken up.
I'll keep on whisking it,
it'll get nice and fluffy.
If it's too loose,
it will splodge out the side.
[mimics squishing] It's never good.
This is pretty terrible.
I can see flecks of yellow,
but I can't get it to whisk any more.
I am not sure about the consistency.
But I will go with this.
Right. Roll out the biscuit dough
and chill in the freezer.
It's a lot of chilling.
We need to make 12. That is 24 biscuits.
So it needs to be thin.
Custard creams.
About three mil thick I reckon.
We're rolling, it's looking all right.
Yeah, the dough's nice.
Cristy. Have you used my biscuit dough?
[Cristy gasps]
-You have?
-Oh, my gosh. I'm so sorry.
-That's my biscuit dough. [laughs]
-[gasps]
[Cristy] Rowan. Ah.
There you go. I'm so sorry, Rowan.
No, it's fine.
-Are you swapping dough, you kids?
-[laughs]
-What happened?
-I found my dough missing.
-[Noel] Sabotage?
-[Rowan] No.
You've done a great job.
Do you feel like you
rolled his out better than yours?
-For sure.
-Oh, no, what's going on here?
-[Cristy] Don't.
-Feel like this is a bit sticky.
Need a bit more of this. [laughs] Sorry.
[Alison] Before their dough is ready
to be cut and stamped…
-I think that'll do.
-…it must be chilled thoroughly.
The longer it chills,
the better definition it'll be,
the less time it will have
to bake and then cool down.
[Noel] But it's a process
that can't be rushed.
[Saku] It's not working.
Sticking. More time in the fridge.
You've got 45 minutes left, everyone.
Forty-five minutes.
[Noel giggles]
Please be ready. Please be ready.
So I'm hoping these are set
and they'll push out of this mould,
but we're gonna find out in a moment.
[Cristy] Stamp.
Don't know how hard to push.
Am I gonna go all the way through?
Look, it's getting stuck.
Is this happening for other people?
I'm probably doing it wrong.
Give it a bit of welly.
Yeah, looks all right.
[Nicky] Come on, out you come.
It is a pretty little pattern.
It's quite sweet, I think.
It's not a uniform custard cream,
but she's the first.
It's like the first pancake.
It's always the worst one,
but we go uphill from here.
[Dan] They're not looking too bad
at the moment.
Can I press the button?
You can do.
Hey, presto.
I'll say that was the best one.
-Some of us have got the touch.
-You do.
It won't stop sticking, so it's going back
in the freezer with a layer of flour.
Nightmare, aren't they? After you.
Thank you.
[Saku] It's sticking
to the… [groans] cutter.
Ah… Not at all neat.
I'm very concerned about this.
This dough has gone too soft
to manipulate.
[Saku] Freezer.
Bakers, you've got half an hour left.
Ah. [whimpers]
Running out of time.
That's not very long.
I need to get mine in the oven.
[Cristy] It just says, "Bake."
Thirteen to start with.
-[beeps]
-Eight minutes.
So I'm gonna go for about…
[softly] 12 minutes.
[Josh] They're pale.
Quite insipid, actually.
Like me in the winter.
-Come on, custard cream.
-[Matty] Abbi, get a bit closer.
[both laugh]
It's already melting.
Think the design's just gonna be lost.
I didn't chill them long enough.
[Keith] So I've put a batch of 12 in.
It's gonna be touch-and-go again.
I had timing issues this morning.
Bakers, you've got ten minutes left.
-Ten minutes.
-I don't know when they'll be ready?
[Josh] Oh, I don't know.
It's hard to call, isn't it?
Once they get brown, they're coming out.
I love a custard cream and I'm gonna be
mentally scarred by them now, forever.
I'll never be able to eat one again.
-I'm coming out.
-[Cristy] Mine look a bit ropey,
but they're coming out, whatever.
They're looking all right.
Actually, yeah. Looking custard cream-ish.
[Abbi] That one's nice.
This one's gonna be a top,
this one, bottom.
I'm a man with a plan.
[Keith] I'm gonna take these out,
they gotta cool down.
I will put it in the freezer. Ah… [gasps]
I dropped.
-Rowan, what are you doing?
-[Rowan] I'm warming my cream.
[laughing] Rowan.
I don't think
my buttercream's as nice as I'd like.
I've probably overfilled them,
but it doesn't matter.
[Rowan] I'm shaking. This is ridiculous.
I can't do it.
Bakers, you've got one minute left.
If I can't get 12 out,
at least I'll get six out.
[Cristy] I don't know what they'll say.
They don't look perfect.
[Saku] So ugly.
Okay, bakers, your time is up.
[exhales]
Please come and bring your bakes and
place them behind your beautiful photos.
[Saku] They are so ugly.
They look absolutely… [softly] rubbish.
I've got custard on my trainers.
-On your Meghan's? Yeah.
-On my Meghan's? What's that?
-Your Meghan Trainers.
-[both laugh]
[thunder rumbling]
Okay, bakers,
let's welcome back our judges.
We missed you, guys.
[Noel] Paul and Prue are looking
for 12 identical custard creams
with their iconic pattern
well-defined and filled
with a smooth custard buttercream,
and they have no idea whose are whose.
Not very easy. But you
seem to have more or less managed it.
More or less.
Shall we start over here, Prue?
[Prue] They look a bit pale.
They do look pale.
There is a bit of definition there.
-[Prue] It's good.
-[Paul] They are pretty neat.
And they're not overfilled. Nice snap.
That biscuit just needs
a bit longer in the oven.
It's got a slightly floury taste.
[Paul] Moving on to number two. Now these
lost a little bit of definition here.
The filling inside is a bit sparse.
Also it's not quite set.
[Paul] Mmm.
Still very soft.
And so is the biscuit.
Not much snap to that.
It needs a little longer in the oven.
[Paul] Yeah, it does.
[Prue] This one, unfortunately,
has very little definition.
-You can't read custard cream on it.
-[Paul] Yeah.
[Prue] Well filled.
[Paul] Difference in thickness and thin.
It's just not rolled enough
because the dough was quite soft.
-The custard is better than the biscuit.
-[Paul] Yeah, it is.
This has got colour to it
which I quite like.
We expect a little bit more definition,
but it's not bad.
-[Prue] The piping's pretty good. Mmm.
-[Paul] Yeah.
-And tastes properly baked.
-[Paul] Hmm.
Moving on, lovely colour.
Pretty even on the top and bottom.
[Prue] Very good.
-Well filled.
-[Paul] Mmm.
Needed a little bit longer in the oven.
It's a pity because, apart from that,
I would have said that's pretty faultless.
They look wonderful.
[Paul] Now this one's got
more colour on it.
There's definition here.
Although it's washed out
on a few of them. Well filled.
The custard comes through nicely.
Good flavour, same old problem.
A little bit underbaked.
[thunder rumbling]
[Paul] Lost a bit of definition in places.
-Yeah, and a little unevenly filled.
-[Paul] Yeah.
There is actually
a bit of a crunch to that.
Mmm. It's not bad, but it's a bit thick.
This one, a lot of them are misshapen.
That one's thin at one end
and fat at the other.
That one has got no definition at all.
That custard actually curdled.
[Paul] It's a shame.
-This has got nice definition.
-[Prue] Beautiful.
Nice and equal. Colour's right.
It's got the slight brown hue to it.
[Prue] That looks really good.
-Nice and thin.
-[Paul] Yeah. Mmm.
Now you're talking. Really crispy.
That's a custard cream.
In fact, that's a lot better
than a commercial custard cream.
Very, very good.
[Paul] These are a bit messy.
Uneven, no definition,
the dough was obviously very soft,
difficult to cut.
-It's like rubber.
-Not a success, sadly.
-[Paul] Hmm.
-[thunder rumbling]
-These look great.
-[Prue] Don't they?
Even. They look very professional.
Sadly, slightly underbaked.
You know why?
-'Cause they're too thick.
-[Paul] Mmm.
Another couple of minutes,
that would have been perfect.
It's a real shame.
[Alison] Paul and Prue will now rank
the custard creams from worst to best.
In eleventh place, we have this one.
Keith, they're a bit of a mess,
a bit misshapen.
They look like they were done in a rush.
In tenth spot, we have this one.
Saku, a real mess.
And too soft, slightly underbaked.
In ninth place, we have this one.
Cristy, they're a bit uneven.
And so you don't get the definition.
[Noel] Tasha's in eighth place,
Dana seventh,
Josh sixth, Matty fifth,
and Nicky in fourth.
And in third place, we have this one.
Rowan, they were really nice.
They're just a little bit soft.
[imperceptible]
[Paul] In second, we have this one.
Whose is this?
To be honest, these are good.
Just not as good as number one.
Well done.
Which means the winner is this one.
Abbi, pretty well perfect custard creams.
Well done.
[all applaud]
Ah, I'm just so, so relieved.
I mean, "better than
a commercial custard cream".
That's high praise.
I'm really pleased about that.
I pulled it out the bag.
That is so much better
than last week when I came 12th.
I'm gonna have a drink tonight now.
[laughing] Seventh place!
[Noel] Just the showstopper remains
before Paul and Prue decide
who will be leaving the tent and who
will be crowned this week's Star Baker.
[Alison] I'm enjoying Biscuit Week.
And for me, highlight, Tasha's handshake.
That was incredible!
-Missed it.
-It was my first one. It was amazing.
-Well deserved.
-It was well deserved.
[Paul] She's dropped in the tech.
I'd like to see her do really well
in the showstopper.
-So who do you think's in danger of going?
-I think Keith is in trouble.
The actual, erm, marshmallow biscuit
he created looked awful.
I mean, really,
big lumps and nuts on the top.
It was… But the taste was very good.
I think Dana is in a bit of trouble,
struggled in the sig, er,
and she was seventh in the technical.
What about no-jam Nicky?
That was the funniest.
-No-jam Nicky.
-[laughing] She literally…
No jam whatsoever.
She picked two flavours, rhubarb
and ginger, which really bring flavour.
Beautiful flavours and hardly put them in.
Who's in line
for Star Baker at the moment?
Rowan.
-[Noel] Tash?
-[Paul] Tash.
I can't call it. I can't call it.
Can you call it?
Nobody can. Not even
the god of baking, Paul Hollywood.
-Not even Paul Hollywood.
-[Alison and Noel laugh]
Morning, bakers.
For your showstopper challenge,
Prue and Paul would like you to make
an amazing illusion biscuit display,
which is depicting your favourite meal.
What if their favourite meal
is a plate of biscuits?
Didn't think about that, did you, Paul?
Now you can choose any style of biscuit,
it's completely up to you,
but it's gotta taste amazing
and look visually realistic.
You have four hours,
which seems a hell of a lot of time.
-On your marks…
-Get set…
Bake!
Looking forward to the challenge.
Bit different.
It's like something you'd never
think of doing basically.
You know, so, yeah, it's pretty cool.
I feel like I'm a very creative person,
so I love coming up with new ideas.
So it's kind of like my way,
I can finally get inventive.
I'm very excited. I really am.
We've asked them to make
a meal or banquet scene out of biscuits.
It could be burgers, pizzas,
could be anything.
Mine personally, pizza.
They really have to be
a little artistic with this.
Certainly a little bit of
sculpting knowledge would be useful.
Nearly all the biscuits they bake
are going to have to be
a very specific shape.
So there's a real danger
of overworking the dough.
And we all know
that if you overwork the dough,
it gets tough and loses
its crumbly texture and its crack.
We want the biscuits
to taste good, look good,
-but look like something else.
-[exhales heavily]
I want it to really have that wow factor,
because it is the showstopper
and certainly, for one baker,
it's their last bake.
-Hello, Josh.
-Hello.
Hello, Josh.
All right, Josh. Illusion bake.
What are you doing?
I am doing a burger and fries.
I've got five different types of biscuit.
Got a gingerbread for the chopping board,
the burger's gonna be a Florentine.
-Florentine? A very good idea.
-It looks so realistic as well.
[Alison] Josh's gingerbread board
will display his orange shortbread fries
and his towering burger
complete with his Florentine patties,
almond flavoured burger buns
and salad made
from strawberry-flavoured sugar biscuits.
I love this idea.
You've thought this through well.
Do you know what'd really help you?
If you get a real burger and chips
and put it to the side.
Just so we've got something to look
at the difference between the two.
-Should we order it now? [laughs]
-Yeah.
You might lose it though.
It might disappear down Paul's neck.
See you, Josh, well done.
[Noel] Josh isn't the only baker
recreating their favourite
fast-food feast.
So I am making pizza.
It was an absolute no-brainer.
I literally probably have pizza
probably every Friday night.
[Noel] Dana's gravity-defying pizza
will comprise
a maple pecan shortbread base,
date roll stuffed crust
and a tuile pepperoni.
What happened in the signature?
Paul said he didn't like it.
He said those words.
-What about Prue?
-Prue liked it. So it's very…
-Not enough.
-…good cop, bad cop,
-yin and yang.
-Need blue eyes to like it.
-Oh.
-Are you slightly angry?
Livid.
[Abbi] First batch in.
-[Alison] With multiple batches to bake…
-[sighs]
…in various shapes, sizes,
thicknesses and doughs…
That's gonna go in the oven
for 36 minutes.
…the bakers will need
to work as efficiently as possible…
Right, behave yourselves.
…if they are to keep their
biscuit production line running smoothly.
Ah, there's just so much to do.
I've selected things
and doing them at the right thickness
so the oven temperature doesn't need
to change throughout the bake.
I bake these, then they come out.
Then I bake my steamer basket.
Then I bake
the other half of my steamer basket.
Then I bake my dumplings,
then my other dumplings.
Then I do the batter ones towards the end.
Just gotta tick everything off,
make sure I don't miss anything.
I'm gonna do a cheeseboard.
So I've made marzipan
to go on top of the biscotti
to give you the cured meat illusion.
-What's happening here? Bacon?
-No, I knew it looked like bacon.
-[Noel] What is it?
-Parma ham.
It does look like Parma ham.
-Does it?
-Yeah.
[Alison] Alongside her
marzipan ham-covered biscotti,
Cristy's grazing board will feature
fondant-topped ginger biscuits
masquerading as slices of cheese
and chorizo and orange
and pistachio biscuits
that will be stacked
to make an array of cheeses.
-Oh, look, it's bacon.
-It's Parma ham.
It's Parma ham. It's not bacon, Alison.
-That's what I said.
-Same thing, innit?
[all laughing]
It does look like bacon.
Don't laugh at me.
[Noel] Cristy's not the only baker
counting on cured meat
to make an impression.
[Rowan] This is sugar cookie prosciutto.
I love a charcuterie night with my mates.
It's nice to get everyone
around the dinner table,
and you can just kind of chill out,
talk to people,
eat some really smelly cheese,
er, and gorge on crackers
and down the wine. It's great.
[Noel] Featuring prosciutto sugar biscuits
and slices of bread and cheese
made from Polish gingerbread,
Rowan's attempting a recreation
of his favourite student night in.
You've got a cupboard full of pinot
-and charcuterie in the fridge?
-Yeah.
-And that's your university life?
-That's me.
[Alison] How do you afford this?
-This is like, er… You're at university.
-[Rowan] I'm at uni.
Yet you're having one of these boards?
You don't want to see my overdraft.
-You don't.
-[laughs] I don't.
[Noel] The battle of the grazing boards
has a third contender.
[Matty] It's a cheeseboard.
It's gonna be a brie,
camembert, Swiss, some crackers.
Yeah, I've got tonnes to do. [laughs]
Yeah, maybe too much, we'll see.
[Alison] Matty's ambitious cheeseboard
will be made up of six different biscuits
including two shortbreads,
macaron grapes and garibaldi crackers.
Who do you think
your toughest competition is?
Anyone you're scared of?
-Abbi.
It's so nerve-wracking being behind Abbi
'cause I can see everything she's doing.
[Abbi] This is my steamer basket.
This is the lattice part of it.
So for my showstopper,
I am making a dim sum brunch,
because I love Chinese food.
And I like cooking it a lot.
It's, like, my favourite thing to cook.
So I thought, I'll give it a go,
make it out of biscuit.
[Alison] Abbi's dim sum feast
will see marzipan
and cherry-filled brandy snap spring rolls
alongside a lemon
and Earl Grey biscuit steamer,
and apricot and pistachio-filled
biscuit dumplings.
I'm also making fortune cookies,
which aren't technically an illusion,
but it wouldn't be complete
without fortune cookies.
So, erm,
I've written some little fortunes.
One says, "Watch out,
things are getting intense."
'Cause we're in a tent.
[Noel] Also trying to impress
with an East Asian theme is Tasha.
I'm making a Japanese katsu.
When my friends and I go to
a new Japanese restaurant,
we always kind of base our… our judgement
of the restaurant
on how well they do the katsu.
[Noel] Tasha's biscuit-y take
on her benchmark meal
will see orange and almond
biscotti chicken,
an intricately painted
palet Breton biscuit bowl
and matcha Viennese cups.
You had an up-and-down day yesterday.
I think in the technical, you did okay,
but in the signature,
you smashed it out of the park.
I expect today to be
as good as your signature.
-No pressure.
-[Alison] No pressure.
-See you later, Tash.
-Thank you.
Oh, my God. [sighs]
[Alison] While Tasha toils
to recreate yesterday's success,
one baker is hoping
history won't be repeating itself today.
I'm hoping to present you
with something that looks better
than the two dog's breakfasts
that I presented you with yesterday.
Well, they tasted great.
I've called it my Lee-on-Solent
lunchtime meal deal.
-[laughs]
-I, erm…
I work from home and I…
I live near the seaside,
so quite often, when I make my lunch,
I'll go down to the seaside,
-sit on the beach for half an hour.
-Lovely.
-And eat.
-See the waves coming in,
eat my meal deal.
And if I've worked hard in the morning,
I treat myself
to a pink and white squirty ice cream.
[Alison] Keith's Viennese biscuit
and raspberry buttercream ice cream cone
will sit beside his shortbread
ham and tomato sandwich
with a spiced biscuit crust
and a portion of almond tuile crisps
contained within their cylindrical
gingerbread packaging.
[Keith] I'm creating the two halves
of my Pringles tube.
But of course as soon as the heat hits it,
it all flops down to the bottom
of the oven. So I've gotta watch them.
So that goes in.
That's two things I've gotta put on,
the timer and glasses.
So I can see what's going on.
[Matty] I'm gonna brush the garibaldi
with some egg white.
I think it gives it a glaze.
That I'm then gonna hide
with fondant. [laughs]
So why are we bothering?
[Josh] The burger buns,
they've kept their shape nicely.
[Noel] While it's important
the bakers' biscuits
showcase a variety of tastes and textures…
Biscotti in.
This is the burger,
and it's a Florentine burger.
I've got walnuts, pecans
and almonds in there.
…Paul and Prue are expecting
convincing illusion biscuits.
[Rowan] These are the gingerbread cups.
[Noel] The bakers need to get creative
with their moulds.
[Abbi] This is a steamer basket.
This basically is just to hold everything
in place while it bakes.
[Alison] And hope their choice
of biscuit is robust enough.
Trying to make a bowl.
This is the, er, palet Breton.
It's really strong.
I tried different doughs
and they just kind of melted in the oven.
[Alison] And Keith's gingerbread
crisp tubes have done just that.
[Keith] I can't believe the state of this.
The two halves of the cylinder,
they've slid off.
Yeah, a bit panicky.
I made sure I made plenty of gingerbread
for fear of this… this happening.
But I can't afford to get it wrong twice.
Bakers, you have halfway left.
Halfway left?
-Halfway left.
-[laughs]
Halfway there.
[Keith] I've got my next try
at the gingerbread cylinder.
I would say it's slightly better.
I just, I'm really…
I'm really desperate for this to happen.
[Noel] As Keith's crisp tube
takes a second shot in the oven,
the other bakers' illusions
are starting to take shape.
Now I'm just assembling the little pizza
and the stuffed crust. [chuckles]
[Matty] This is the camembert.
This is one of my two different shapes
of dumplings
and I'm just filling it
with apricot and pistachio.
[Josh] Got my tomato rings
with strawberry biscuit,
I've put crushed,
boiled sweets in there,
and they're gonna melt and form
the watery bit inside a tomato.
-Saku, is that real onions?
-Yeah, that's real onion.
You're not supposed to do real onions,
just make it look like onions.
[Saku] It is a side dish.
But it's real onions.
-[laughing]
-Really?
[Noel] Alongside Saku's onions
will be a biscuit rendering
of a traditional Sri Lankan breakfast
featuring coconut and cardamom
biscuit hoppers, rotis of cheddar,
rosemary and black pepper,
and a chocolate and coffee
biscuit chicken curry.
Sri Lankan breakfast is very filling.
So you can hold on for the whole day
until dinner time, maybe lunchtime for me
after having that for breakfast.
[producer]
Is Sri Lankan food the best in the world?
Of course! Sri Lankan food
is the best in the world.
Without a doubt.
[Alison] Saku might be trying to recreate
a traditional Sri Lankan breakfast,
but Nicky has some traditions of her own.
[Nicky] I'm just sandwiching
the biscuits together now,
to sort of resemble a wee bit of steak.
So I'm doing a steak pie,
because even now when I go home,
Mum always cooks a steak pie.
[Noel] Beneath her shortbread pie crust,
Nicky's chocolate steak biscuits
will be sandwiched
with a hazelnut and orange ganache.
Rosehip marzipan peas and shortbread chips
will sit alongside
on a plate of decorated gingerbread.
I believe Dan is doing a pie as well.
No pressure again,
just seems to be all I ever do
is get under pressure, doesn't it?
Yeah, 'cause Dan's pretty good.
So, erm, I don't know how I'll get on.
[Dan] So, I am doing
a, er, cheese and onion pie.
When I shout from the kitchen, "What pie
do you want for tea this weekend?"
It's always cheese and onion pie,
it's a firm favourite.
[Alison] Sat on gingerbread plates,
Dan's shortbread pie pastry
will be sliced
to reveal pistachio shortbread onions
and an orange curd cheese sauce.
Nestled next to his pie
will be a generous portion
of shortbread peas
and vanilla biscuit chips.
[Noel] Quite a mess, your workstation.
It's giving me a panic attack.
I'm in the process
of clearing the decks at the moment.
[laughs] You know who loves that?
Paul Hollywood.
-[laughs] This would freak him out.
-Yeah, I know.
He'd be like, "Argh."
He was tutting, shaking his head,
walking past me before.
Have you ever seen
one of his workstations?
-No.
-Denim.
[both laughing]
Starched denim.
[Noel laughs]
Bakers, you have one hour left.
It's so exciting, just one hour.
Ooh. Cannot begin to tell you
how relieved I am with that.
Ah.
[Noel] With his crisp tube trauma
in the past,
Keith is free to finish his final batches.
I'm making these things
called tuile biscuits
to represent crisps.
[Noel] And the rest of the bakers
can start bringing their illusions to life
with decoration.
So, yeah, I love this bit.
I'm just, erm, painting up
the gingerbread plate.
It's quite hard
'cause the icing's not set.
[Abbi] This is what
makes it look like bamboo.
Doing some lattice work here to achieve
the red and white chequered parchment
you usually get your burger served on.
[Tasha] Nice, nice.
Chuffing heck, I'm looking around
and everybody's is so good and realistic.
This is shocking.
Bakers, you have 30 minutes left.
I'm putting melted chocolate on these
to make them look like burgers.
-Anything I can do to help you?
-No.
-Do you wanna get on my shoulders?
-No. [laughs]
-Okay. Maybe later.
-But thank you.
[Noel laughs]
[Dana] This is royal icing
which is the tomato sauce.
My favourite bit is the tomato rings,
they look really pretty.
[Keith] This is meant to represent
the seeds of the tomato.
[Matty] The top of the camembert,
I just torched it.
This is white chocolate and this
is creating the cheese pull for the pizza.
Just gotta make the brie
look like the brie.
[Josh] Getting there.
Bakers, you have five minutes left.
Scissors, scissors, scissors.
[Dan] Let's see how my chips look.
I like my chips on the darker side.
Just piping the grapes and the olives.
How long do we have?
Bakers, you have one minute left.
[Dana] Tuile pepperoni.
Taking it to the wire.
[Cristy] They're little gherkins.
[Josh] Right.
Bakers, that is time up.
Please step away from your showstoppers.
[Rowan gasps]
It's so bad.
First time in three things
I haven't had an absolutely mad panic.
Have I forgotten anything?
Josh's is outrageous.
Yeah, that's sick.
[Alison] It's judgement time
for the bakers' biscuit illusion banquets.
Tasha, would you like to bring up
your showstopper, please.
-[Paul] I think it looks good.
-[Tasha] Thank you.
[Prue] It's very pretty.
It does give the illusion
of being a chicken katsu.
Erm, I'll take a little bit of the…
[Tasha] It is a palet Breton
lemon flavoured bowl.
-[Paul] Hmm.
-[Prue] Mmm. Good, isn't it?
That biscuit is nice
and sharp with flavour.
Limoncello comes through nicely.
Let's have some chicken.
This one is an orange and almond biscotti
coated in white chocolate.
-That biscotti is delicious.
-Mmm. Oh!
[Paul] I love the crunch,
the flavour, the texture's spot on.
Really good.
Both of those biscuits are perfect.
You have set a bar
that's a little bit high.
-[chuckles]
-Well done.
Thank you.
[Prue] I think that it looks wonderful.
[Paul] Let's have a look at this,
that's the ginger.
Ginger's got a good flavour,
nice and warm.
Is this a biscotti?
Yeah, almond and dried cherry.
Biscotti's very nice, and tangy.
I think you've done well.
It's smart, it's neat. Well done.
Thank you, guys.
[Paul] We'll start,
we'll have a look at these…
[Rowan] It's a spiced black pepper
gingerbread-type thing.
[Paul] Good flavour.
Texture's softened slightly.
Erm, because of the topping on it.
The illusion bit doesn't work
all that well.
After a while you realise
that's maybe salami on top.
-Is that right? Yeah.
-Yeah. But I do like the flavours.
-Flavours are good.
-[Prue] Yeah.
It's a terrific illusion.
I mean, as soon as you look at it,
it really looks like a cheeseboard.
These crackers, this one I wanna try.
I saw you making these.
Yeah, they looked as if
they were stuffed with cranberries.
Very crumbly shortbread. It's lovely.
-Yeah.
-Well done, Matty.
-Thank you.
-Thank you, cheers.
I think it's clever.
I'm not quite sure I've seen many tomatoes
-like that.
-[Prue] No.
They're from the south coast. We…
-[all laughing]
-We have very good…
We have very good growing conditions
and you get that redness.
[Paul] It's amazing. I like the way
you've done the bread. Oh, dear.
It's very soft.
[Prue] Great flavour.
Your flavours are always good.
The issue is I shouldn't be able
to push my finger in.
-[Prue] yeah.
-It's soft.
The ham slice in the middle,
is that the same?
-Yes.
-That is much better baked.
Right, the ice creams.
It's vanilla-flavoured Viennese
and raspberry buttercream.
Slightly raw inside, the biscuit.
You struggled on this one a bit, Keith.
I have to say,
I've never seen a pizza that deep.
[Dana] Neither have I.
[laughter]
But that's the dream. [chuckles]
So, the bottom two are the shortbread
and the top is just a vanilla biscuit
with the date filling.
Well, I enjoyed all that a lot.
You've done a good job.
The flavours and textures are clever.
And it's so original.
I mean, I love the date-stuffed crust.
-Thank you, Dana.
-Thank you.
I like the look of this, it's clever.
Very nice. Steamer basket is beautiful.
Absolutely perfect. And what's in these?
[Abbi] Er, so it's an apricot,
pistachio and thyme filling.
Filling is very strong. But delicious.
And the biscuit is crisp and flavoursome,
it looks like a dim sum.
This looks lovely.
You've done a decent job with this.
The illusion works.
-[Paul] Thanks.
-[Prue] Well done.
[Paul] These are rotis.
-Very delicious.
-That is fantastic. [laughs]
They're so good.
That in its own right
should be
a well-known Sri Lankan delicacy.
-[Paul] Okay.
-[Prue] Let's try a hopper.
The spices are good,
but you could've done more.
Perhaps if you'd have made
the egg a little bigger
and done it with spring onion,
a bit of chilli
so that it looked more colourful.
Yes.
[Prue] It's just beautiful.
[Paul] Amazing.
Are these chips shortbread?
[Dan] Er, just vanilla,
like a sablé biscuit.
They taste nice, but they're a bit burnt.
-Let's have a look at this pie.
-[Prue] What is the biscuit here?
It's like a pistachio shortbread
in there as well.
-It's absolutely delicious.
-It is.
I think it's a triumph. I really do.
I think you've done
a great job on the biscuits.
Except for the overbaking slightly.
And the filling is wonderful. Well done.
-[Paul] Excellent. Well done.
-Thank you.
[Paul] It's a good-looking thing. It's…
-[Prue] It's neat.
-[Paul] It's well detailed, neat.
Try the shortbread.
Your chips look more
like shortbread fingers than chips.
-[laughing] They do.
-[Paul] They do, don't they?
[Prue] What is the beef?
[Nicky] The beef is a chocolate biscuit
with a chocolate ganache
with orange and hazelnuts through it.
The chocolate and hazelnut are beautiful.
The texture falls apart in the mouth,
and the ganache just tops it off.
-It's a good sandwich biscuit.
-[Prue] Hmm. And what's the bowl made of?
-Gingerbread.
-[judges] Gingerbread.
[Paul] The flavour is very gingery.
Too thick and underbaked.
Needed longer in the oven.
And thinner and it would've been better.
[Nicky] Yeah.
Josh, it is so neat.
And so clearly what it is.
I think it's a little triumph.
I think it's a big triumph.
Shall we try?
-This is the orange shortbread?
-[Josh] Yeah.
-That's beautiful. Delicate.
-Beautiful. Light.
-[Paul] Mmm.
-[Prue] Look at that.
-[Paul] Look at that tomato.
-Look at that tomato.
-Let me hold it up.
-[Paul] That's clever.
You can see through it.
-Isn't that amazing?
-[Paul] Let's try this chocolate one.
There's walnuts, pecans and almonds
and some currants and cherries as well.
It's chewy, it's crispy, it's zingy,
it's full of flavour.
I think overall you've created,
erm, something a little bit special.
Erm, you don't often get illusion stuff
that tastes and looks as good as that.
-That's amazing, mate. Well done.
-Thank you.
That was incredible.
Wasn't expecting that at all.
[Paul] You know what.
-[Prue] Come on.
-[Paul] I'll come to you.
-Thank you. Oh, wow.
-That was amazing.
-Thank you.
-Honestly, it was seriously good. Amazing.
I think Josh has pipped Star Baker,
but that's fine. Erm, another time.
[laughs] I was… touching distance
and then it was gone.
I'm actually quite good
at making a real steak pie.
[chuckling] But maybe
not so much out of biscuit.
So, I've got a right
to be a bit concerned, I think.
[Alison] It's decision time
for Paul and Prue.
Who will be crowned Star Baker
and who will be leaving the tent?
What a showstopper.
You've got your handshake out.
But it was delayed.
It was, because I was so full of biscuit…
-[laughing]
-Everything was numb,
and then it hit me and I went,
"Hang on, I owe him a handshake."
-[Alison] That was so good.
-[Prue] Josh is definitely in the running.
Yeah, I mean, he was sort of mid… midway,
but he's just escalated himself
into the position of
challenging for Star Baker.
I'm really thrilled about Tash
'cause I think she's up there too.
-[Paul] I agree.
-[Prue] She's hardly put a foot wrong.
Who do you think's in danger of going?
-[Prue] Keith.
-Yeah, Keith.
[Alison] The thing is,
with Keith, he's got flavour.
He's delivering good taste.
Nicky, er, has struggled a bit as well.
When you look at her bakes
and look at everybody else's, you think,
"Hang on. It's not as good
as we initially thought it was."
I'm glad I'm not in your shoes, judges.
-I'd quite like to have eaten 70 biscuits.
-[both laughing]
Bakers, well done.
It's been an amazing week
and it was a fabulous showstopper.
Fortunately,
I've got the job of announcing
which one of you
will be Star Baker this week.
And the person
who's Star Baker this week is…
Tasha.
[all applauding]
Now, sadly, I have the job
of letting go of one baker,
and we're just getting to know you all,
we're absolutely adoring you.
But the baker leaving today is…
Keith.
-Sorry, Keith.
-It's all right.
I feel fine. There's… there's nothing sad
about… about this moment.
Thank you very much,
it's been so lovely to meet you.
I've had the most fantastic time.
I… I said to somebody, the first weekend,
there was bruises up and down my arms
where I was pinching myself
every half hour, so, erm,
I don't know how many hours
I'm gonna spend
in the rest of my life
banging on about this.
Very happy to still be here, so, yes.
Happy, but sad at the same time.
Because Keith's gone.
Well done.
Tash is such
a deserving Star Baker this week
'cause her signature yesterday,
and I tasted it, it was incredible.
So it was well worth
Star Baker for the week on its own.
The handshake, I will remember that.
-[Paul] Well done.
-Thank you.
[Paul] Very good.
It's the weirdest feeling because you put
all this time and this energy,
and at the end of the day,
it's biscuit
or cake or it's something that you eat.
But… [sighs]
…it means so much.
And… yeah.
Yeah, it's… it's a really good feeling.
[laughs]
[closing theme music playing]